---
title: "How the volatile organic compounds emitted by corpse plant change through flowering."
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2022-jane
excerpt: '.'
date: 2022-02-01
venue: 'Nature Scientific Reports'
paperurl: 'https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/1d56/8a6113ee6e9c5e4ad30acb51351edad5716d.pdf'
citation: 'Kang, Lili, Kaur, Jasmeen, Winkeler, Kelsey, Kubiak, Daniella, Hill, Jane.(2023). &quot;How the volatile organic compounds emitted by corpse plant change through flowering.&quot; <i> Nature Scientific Reports</i>. 13:372.'
---
The corpse plant (Amorphophallus titanum) is so named because it produces a pungent, foul odor when flowering. Little is known about how the emitted volatiles change throughout the two-day flowering period. In this study, the comprehensive monitoring of the presence and change in volatile molecules during the female and the male flowering phases of A. titanum was conducted, and the plant temperature was monitored. A total of 422 volatile features were detected over the entire sampling period, of which 118 features were statistically significantly different between the pre-flowering and both flowering phases, and an additional 304 features were found present throughout the flowering period. A total of 45 molecules could be assigned putative names. The volatile profile of A. titanum changes over the two-day flowering period, with the S-containing molecules and aldehydes dominant in the female flowering phase, and the alcohols and hydrocarbons dominant in the male flowering phase. The two-dimensional gas chromatography time-of-flight mass spectrometry (GC × GC-TOFMS) enabled us to identify 32 new molecules produced by A. titanum. Each of these molecules alone, and in combination, likely contribute to the different odors emitted during the flowering phase of A. titanum.

[Link to paper](https://www-nature-com.ezproxy.lib.vt.edu/articles/s41598-022-27108-8)
